# 🚗 **`USED CARS PRICE PREDICTION`** 
==============================
>**Context**

Syarah is an online marketplace for buying and selling cars in Saudi Arabia ([entrepreneur](https://www.entrepreneur.com/en-ae/finance/saudi-arabia-based-online-cars-marketplace-syarah-raises/314901)). So, we can say that there are 3 parties in the business process (Sellers - Syarah - Buyers). Sellers advertise cars they want to sell through Syarah, and buyers buy used cars advertised through Syarah. 

Sellers advertise their cars by define the specifications and price. Sometimes, it will be difficult for the seller who don't know about price range in the market. Because it could be that the seller sets a price that is too low (underpriced) or too high (overpriced) than the price should be. If underpriced, then Sellers will get inappropriate profit. Meanwhile, if overpriced, it may lead to the cars is hard to sold.

>**Problem Statement**

Based on context, as a Business owner, Syarah, also will affected by those problem. If overpriced, buyers will decrease, so the company profit also decrease. As time goes by, sellers will don't want to advertise their cars thorugh Syarah due to low buyers/visitor. If underpriced, company will only get small profit (proportion of sales) due to small price. So we can conclude that the problems is: **How's Syarah can help sellers to determine the right price?**

>**Goals**

With the problem above, we can determine our goals (solution) as: **Provides car price prediction by minimizing errors so that it is not overpriced and underpriced**

>**Project Stakeholder**

Stakeholder who will use the solution is **Sellers in Syarah**

>**Analytics Approach**

We will use **Regression Model** as method to achieve the goal. 

Regression is a type of Machine learning which helps in finding the relationship between independent and dependent variable. In simple words, Regression can be defined as a Machine learning problem where we have to predict discrete values like price, Rating, Fees, etc ([Raghav Agrawal](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2021/05/know-the-best-evaluation-metrics-for-your-regression-model/)).

>**Metrics Evaluation**

Evaluation metrics are quantitative measures used to assess the performance and effectiveness of a statistical or machine learning model. These metrics provide insights into how well the model is performing and help in comparing different models or algorithms ([Tavish Srivastava](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2019/08/11-important-model-evaluation-error-metrics/#:~:text=Evaluation%20metrics%20are%20quantitative%20measures,comparing%20different%20models%20or%20algorithms.)).

Regression machine learning models have various metrics such as MAE, MAPE, and R-squared.
* **Mean Absolute Error(MAE)** is a very simple metric which calculates the absolute difference between actual and predicted values ([Raghav Agrawal](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2021/05/know-the-best-evaluation-metrics-for-your-regression-model/)).
* **Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE)** measures the precision of the forecasts by showing the average percent difference between forecasts and actual activities regardless of whether the individual forecasts were too high or too low. A MAPE less than 5% is considered as an indication that the forecast is acceptably accurate. A MAPE greater than 10% but less than 25% indicates low, but acceptable accuracy and MAPE greater than 25% very low accuracy, so low that the forecast is not acceptable in terms of its accuracy ([Swanson, David A](https://escholarship.org/content/qt1f71t3x9/qt1f71t3x9.pdf?t=o5wul1#:~:text=A%20MAPE%20less%20than%205,in%20terms%20of%20its%20accuracy.)).
* **R squared (R²)** is a popular metric for identifying model accuracy. It tells how close are the data points to the fitted line generated by a regression algorithm. A larger R squared value indicates a better fit. This helps us to find the relationship between the independent variable towards the dependent variable. R² score ranges from 0 to 1. The closest to 1 the R², the better the regression model is. If R² is equal to 0, the model is not performing better than a random model ([Shweta Goyal](https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/evaluation-metrics-for-regression-models-c91c65d73af#:~:text=R%20squared%20is%20a%20popular,variable%20towards%20the%20dependent%20variable.)).